Current components:

Change chaninfo usage
    
    Chaninfo should use a more functional approach--scripts import chaninfo and
use methods from it. Network.channels is great for an internal data structure
but not so great for users.


Clanshells connectivity

    urk doesn't properly connect to GameSurge's clanshells server because it
doesn't recognize the "MOTD file is missing" raw.


Keyboard Shortcuts

    ^B, ^K etc.
    
    ^T for new server window?
    
    tab for nick completion


Format more stuff

    Change formatting of tabs, tabs with new text, based on theme


Fill in the channel name

    Some standard irc commands always require a channel. If the user types one
of them on a channel window and does not provide a channel, we should use the
current one.


Ipv6 etc.

    We should have ipv6 support. Automatically and not to the detriment of
ipv4.


Cannot send to channel
    
    We need to show the various "cannot send to channel" message in the actual
channel windows.


Preferences UI

    a preferences ui, probably with a separate sort of 
"connect or edit connection" dialog

    we want a number of "preflets" rather than one gigantic prefs window


Highlighting
    
    Provide a means for highlighting. Maybe theme should trigger an event? :/




Things that can be done as separate components:


Functional Nicklist

    right-clicking the nicklist should do something


System Install

    a script (probably python) to do a system-wide install


DCC Stuff

    DCC server, sends, chat, etc. We should support mIRC's "passive" DCC.


Logging

    We'll need this at some point. Most likely we'll just put logging code
in IRCWindow.write().


Ignore list

    Possibly doesn't merit a separate component, but this is a "standard irc
client feature" that's not essential to any current components.


Identd

    IRC servers appear to expect us to run an identd server for no good reason.

        
Notify

    IRC notify functions and events for scriptors.


replacements for stuff

    It'd be cool to have alternative ui's and conf's..maybe we could optionally
get rid of some dependencies by using built-in python things.

